Q) What is the difference between Git and Github?
A)Git is a version control system install on local machine.
Github is a hosting platform.

Q) Lets say your organization has github and bitbucket to store code, you have cloned a repo onto your local and changed directory name. after some days one of your team members asks you to share clone link, how would you provide the same?
A) git remote get-url origin

Q) I have shell script to delete particular dependency ( repo is maven project ). before running the script i need to clone repo to my local, here point to note i should only clone master branch and only last commit ( last commit has all the code ) how would you do this?
A) git clone --depth 1 --branch master <repository-url>

Q) What is submodule and why we need submodule?
A) A Git submodule is a repository embedded within another Git repository.
Syntax: git submodule add <repository-url> <path-to-submodule>

Q) Lets say you have changed 5 files a,b,c,d and e in a repo and you did git add ., now all the files are in staging area, now i decided not to commit file d. how would delete it from staging area?
A) git restore --staged d

Q) What is the difference between Git and Github?
A) Git is the version control system, while github is a hosting platform for repositories.

Q) How do you resolve merge conflicts in Git?
A) To resolve conflicts manually editing the conflicting files.

Q) What is git reset? Types of reset?
A) Git reset is a Git command used to undo changes in the working directory and the staging area.
Syntax: Git reset <commit id> reset --hard
Three types: 1) Hard 2) Mixed 3) Soft

Q) How to delete local branch and remote branch in git ?
A) git branch –d <branch name> & Git push origin :<branch name>

Q) Difference between git diff and git status ?
A) git status: Provides an overview of the repository's state, showing which files are staged, unstaged, or untracked.
git diff: Shows detailed differences between files in the working directory, the staging area, and commits.

Q) What are hooks in git?
A) Hooks are scripts that run automatically when certain events happen in a repository. Default hooks file location in .git folder.

Q) 9.You accidentally committed sensitive information to a Git repository. Describe the steps you would take to remove the sensitive information from the repository's history.
A) git filter-branch --force --index-filter "git rm --cached --ignore-unmatch ./secrets.txt" --prune-empty --tag-name-filter cat -- --all

Q) 10.One of your team members accidentally deleted a critical branch in a Git repository. Describe the steps you would take to recover the deleted branch.
A) Git Reflog
log is public record and reflog is private records of commits

Q) What is origin?
A) Origin is a name of link between remote and local repository.
lets if someone forked our repo than we can access to forked repo by local by creating new link any name like git remote add friend <forked repo link>
so in two links create one is origin and another is friend that is linked to forked repo.
we can check this by git remote -v
